hi everyone so today I thought I'd go
over some tips I have for freshers
because I know a lot of you are going to
be thinking about starting University
now since LM a results day was yesterday
I hope it will win laughs everyone I was
thinking of you all is exciting now
because you know university terms start
in is it like a month maybe just over a
month just under four Sam I'm not sure
but university is imminent and I love
you might be panicking now or thinking
gone no prepared and not ready for this
here's where I come in I put together
some of my advice that I've kind of
learned from my own experiences I've
just finished my first year or physical
Natural Sciences at the University of
Cambridge so I have done the fresher
experience and quite sad I'm no longer a
fresher all I can say is you're gonna
have the time of your life and yeah here
are my top tips to make the most of it
okay so my first piece of advice is to
decorate your room and make it comfy
make it homely you don't want to feel
like it's a whole new place cuz that can
be daunting you want to make it feel
like it's your room I for example put up
lots of photos and just little bits on
my mantelpiece from home I took a bean
bag in your room will fit a bean bag I
would highly recommend one because the
armchairs a supply are not comfy at all
and I just wanted somewhere comfy to
relax sometimes I also put fairy lights
up in my room and I change new bedding
if you want to see what I took I
actually did make a video back on my
channel I'll link it in the description
as well but it's everything I tips you
uni with me so you will see in more
detail what I took to kind of decorate
my room the basics it's all there my
next piece of advice is to be really
open to meeting new people you've got to
make an effort with people you've got to
get out there get out your room and
introduce yourself to people because
otherwise you're not going to make
friends you're not going to get the most
of this experience I know it's scary and
trust me I
one of the shyest people or I was anyway
I think I've really come a long way
when I got to uni I had to give myself a
pep talk I was like Paige you've got to
get out there so when I heard people
down in the kitchen on my first day I
was out my room getting down there and
introducing myself I'd really recommend
taking a doorstop with you actually keep
your door open so anyone that walks past
you who's in the same holes in your
corridor you know you can be like hi
well they'll be like they'll pop in your
room put their head around and be like
hello you were like yes hello friendship
right there new besties honestly other
people will be just as nervous as you
and they'll be so grateful if you make
the first move and say hi I'm blah blah
you know pleased to meet you the
response you'll get I was really shocked
when I started because people were just
so friendly I'd introduce myself and
they'd be like oh hi pleased to meet you
and I'd be like well I think they want
to be friends with me and that's because
everyone else wants to make friends too
don't feel like you have to reinvent
yourself put on a front just be yourself
make sure you are going to the freshers
icebreakers activities and get yourself
down to the bar get yourself chatting
the people who don't settle in as much
are going to be the people who spend
their time in their room they don't need
their room and don't make an effort as
long as you make an effort I promise you
you'll be fine just relax my next piece
of advice is to join a club or society
go to the freshers fair sign up to one
or two things that take your interest
there will be so much on offer trust me
University freshest fairs are massive go
take advantage of the free stuff cuz
there's often free pizza you know and
sign up for things I did Boat Club
sing and Bormann Latin dancing in my
first year I loved both of them and they
were both a really good way to meet new
people as well first year is the year to
have fun isn't it really I mean that's
how I treated it I just feel like if you
want to throw yourself into something a
bit of fun outside of your studies
definitely do it in first year okay
next things talk about
is drinking I know a lot of people are
scared about the alcohol side of things
before coming to uni if you want to
drink that's fine if you don't want to
drink that's fine too
no one's gonna judge you for either
there'll be other people in your exact
situation I promise
everyone comes to uni with different
drinking experiences in the past I
personally had not had much to drink
before starting uni I mean I never
really had a glass of wine meals with my
parents and the evening the only time
I'd really drink was when I went out for
a few cocktails with my friends from
home but that was it and there were
other people in my situation
some people were regular drinkers some
people had never had alcohol before both
were fine and it's not this note there's
no big divides the drinkers and the
non-drinkers everyone has fun if highly
unlikely people are gonna go up to you
and go you must drink have a drink it's
not that sort of peer pressure you might
feel a pressure that if everyone else is
drinking then you should drink too
because yes the majority of people do
drink but just ignore it
honestly you do you there are formal
people who don't drink than you think I
have had more alcohol since starting uni
than I did before starting uni I
definitely say I didn't feel pressure to
drink at any point Oh alcohol I had in
first year was my own choice entirely if
you do want to drink which is fair
enough go have fun drinking can be fun
just be responsible
especially in freshers week everyone's
new you don't know anyone do you you
don't want to do things you'll regret
for the rest of the year okay next thing
to talk about is money so I feel like
I'm not the best person to talk about
this sort of thing because I think I
could have done better at managing my
money and being aware of budgeting and
stuff in first year definitely budget
keep it all on a spreadsheet and it'll
be fine it's not that hard
managing your own money it's fine it's
part of growing up you know one thing to
be aware of is the sales the shop sales
they bring out sales when your student
loan comes in and try and entice you try
and make you spend all of your loan the
day it comes in it's just me it's
downright mean how could they do that
but you've got to be responsible this
this money is gonna last you the whole
term so don't blow it all in the first
week and definitely don't blow it all in
fresh as week just don't know my next
tip is actually what I feel most
passionate about it's something I wish
that I'd known before starting and it's
to value your sleep sleep is so precious
and it's so underrated
I was so sleep-deprived
in first term and second term actually
you thought I would have learned but I
didn't it makes you feel grim when you
don't get enough sleep and you can't
concentrate on your work it's just not
good and so if it means going out maybe
one night less unusual or getting your
work done earlier so you're not up late
the day before it's due just do that
sometimes coffee does not cut it I used
to worry about having my makeup done and
my hair all nicely straightened for
lectures in the morning and it just
wasn't worth it no one cares what you
look like and you can get those precious
few more minutes in bed I'd recommend
maximizing hours of sleep really do
think about it because it takes a toll
on you if you don't have enough another
thing about getting good sleep if the
University beds can often be really hard
like mine was like a rock take a
mattress topper with you I'd highly
recommend it will make your night's
sleep so much nicer next tip is to pack
clothes for colder weather in September
when you start it will be still fairly
pleasant weather
yeah and might even be sunny you never
know but by a time I guessed December it
will be cold
so pack your jumpers pack lots of them
especially if you're a southerner going
up north
I know Cambridge isn't exactly north but
it's north from where I live and
definitely when I arrived on my first
day with my parents we got out the car
and we were like
it's freezing cold we were shivering
there's a temperature difference between
the south and the north I'm telling you
so southerners beware parka jumpers okay
so next thing I'd say to you is to make
the most of the rest of your summer I
know you're probably thinking dude
University place is confirmed you're off
you need to get working now you've got
to be preparing just don't unless the
university send you stuff like books to
read or other work to do then obviously
do that but if they don't just relax
you're gonna be snowed under with work
soon enough you don't don't go crazy in
your summer holiday unless you really
enjoy learning then I suppose do some
work but I mean if we're being honest
who would rather be doing some academic
work when you could be outside enjoying
sunny weather at the beach or watching
some TV like also relating to this I
wouldn't take your ailable notes with
you to uni like I packed my massive big
folders of physics chemistry and maths
a-level work did I look at them once
while I was at uni nope I can pretty
much guarantee you if you take your
a-level notes you won't look at them so
if you're trying to pack a bit lighter
if you don't have quite enough space in
the car I'd recommend just leaving your
a-level notes behind okay next piece of
advice
so freshers flu it may well hit you in
the first few lectures of term say a
couple of weeks in maybe there'll be a
constant coughing in the background
constant through the whole lecture
people coughing and you've got to be
like don't infect me but sometimes you
just can't avoid it I'd say just have
lots of vitamin C drink up that orange
juice use hand sanitizer I managed to
avoid it actually until six weeks into
term at which point is it really cooled
freshest new anymore like I think I
basically Dorsch freshers flu next tip
is to schedule and plan your time
properly be organised so you don't leave
your work until just before it's due if
you
Stewart midday don't still be doing it
at 11 o'clock it's stressful so
stressful and I just want to stress free
life I don't know about you guys it
wasn't until third term when I really
turned over a new leaf and was doing my
work a good few days in advance of when
it was June I know a lot of you watching
this will be like oh yes I see I see
what she's saying I'll do my work a few
days in advance I mean I think even I
was thinking that at the start of my
first term yeah University happens
doesn't it and somehow you end up doing
your work an hour before it's June and I
think you probably do need to learn the
hard way for the most part but even if
this this piece of advice from me helps
some of you I'd love if it could just
help some of you and say you did you
work a few days in advance that'll be
good okay
moving on to the kitchen name all your
food you're gonna have shared cupboards
you're gonna have a shared fridge and it
may be unintentional but people will
take your stuff
if you don't name it students are like
gannets if you even put some biscuits
out on the center table they'll be gone
within the hour all I'm saying is name
your stuff and make sure you know where
your stuff is
and people won't take it so I know most
people will be self-catered at uni so
that means cooking I was lucky in the I
was catered I mostly ate in my colleges
cafeteria but I really would suggest
having a few easy meals under your belt
because even I missed my cafeteria
dinner sometimes and I was left like oh
wait I can't kind of thing I ended up
having spaghetti hoops for dinner on a
regular basis yeah even if you catered
or you know especially if your self
catered just make sure you can cook a
few easy meals for yourself
and lastly this may not apply to
everyone but especially for Cambridge
and I'm sure it's useful for a few other
you knees is getting a bike I love my
bike I love cycling I cycled every day
while I was at uni and it was just a
lifesaver because it makes getting two
lectures getting to laps
so much quicker when you want more sleep
you want along the line what do you do
you sigh
to lectures when you want more time to
complete assignment what do you do you
cycled to your lab I was extremely
nervous about cycling on the roads
before going to Cambridge the last time
I circled on the roads was my cycling
proficiency test in year six but I'm
actually very confident now I've had a
year of it just got to get yourself on
the roads get your helmet on
be safe and it'll be good I would
recommend if you do get a bike though to
get a secondhand one bikes often do get
stolen it would be a bit of a shame if
you put a really fancy new bike only for
it to get stolen I got my bike from
bridge bike hire in Cambridge actually
it's an ex hire bike which is good
because they threw in a lock they threw
in lights and it was really cheap okay
and I think that it all I can say now is
to have fun good luck with starting
University and don't be nervous it's
actually so much fun when you get there
and I'll see you soon with another video
hit the notification bell down below to
be notified when I upload give the video
a like subscribe and I will see you soon
bye
[Music]